feat(post): add Embeddable Ember Apps post (#2331)
mainmatter/mainmatter.com: src/posts/2024-02-27-embeddable-ember-apps.md

---
title: "Embedding an Ember App with webpack"
authorHandle: BobrImperator
tags: [ember]
bio: "Software Developer"
description:
  "Bartlomiej Dudzik shows how to make an Ember App embeddable in other
  projects."
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2021-12-08-validations-in-ember-apps/og-image.jpg
tagline: |

>   <p>Taking a look at making Ember Apps embeddable.</p>

Reviewer: I'd expand on this a little bit by saying this explains how to embed Ember apps into other HTML documents, apps in other frameworks, by showing how to do it with webpack, etc. The way this is currently is extremely short

imageAlt: Embeddable Ember Apps image
---

#### What we're working with

We'll make a simple Ember Todo App (what else could it be :)) that's then loaded

> in another non-Ember app.

Reviewer: Maybe add something about the hypothetical use case here? I guess we're assuming we want to use the Todo app as a widget essentially

> _If your requirement is to also make that part Embeddable inside another Ember

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_If your requirement is to also make that a part of an Ember app inside another Ember
```

I think this is what you mean? You can potentially leave out this paragraph I think

app, you should consider extracting that chunk into an Addon, publish it so it
can be used in other apps as well as in the Embeddable wrapper._

The easiest, the most flexible approach for making the app embeddable would be

> to bundle everything into a single JS file and a single CSS file. In the "old

Reviewer: "everything" meaning all of the Ember app or the Ember app and the app it is embedded into?

Ember" we'd use a tool such as `ember-cli-concat` to do that, with Embroider we
need to take care of things through webpack however.

> 

Reviewer: I think it would be good to show an example of how the app would be loaded and initialized in the place where it is embedded – that would add some context and make it easier to understand why we're doing what's described in the subsequent paragraphs.

    staticAddonTestSupportTrees: true,
    staticAddonTrees: true,
    staticHelpers: true,
    staticModifiers: true,
    staticComponents: true,
    staticEmberSource: true,
    packagerOptions: {
      webpackConfig: {
        plugins: [
          new FileConcatenationPlugin({
            source: "**/*.js",
            destination: "bundle.js",
          }),
        ],
      },
    },
  });
};
```

##### Combining css

Applications rarely come unstyled and while this application will have almost
none, this is also a rather non obvious step that is otherwise complicated if
not setup correctly.

My humble recommendation is to opt out of the default styles CSS handling that
Ember provides and do it on our own. Reason being that unfortunately `ember-cli`
doesn't seem to be using Webpack directly and it's not straightforward to know
how and when to concatenate them.

Luckily a basic postcss setup isn't scary and is more common nowadays and even
recommended.

First lets define the styles:

- install packages `npm install postcss-loader mini-css-extract-plugin -D`
- Create an `app.css` file in the `app` directory - on the same level as
  `app.js`

> - Scope the styles to `.ember-todo-test` to avoid collisions with users

Reviewer: "collisions with users" meaning collisions with styles in the document/app the Ember app is embedded into?

		}
	};
  }
</script>

{#if isEmbeddedAppReady}
  <div use:bootEmbeddedApp={{ canRemoveTodos: true, onTodosChanged: (todos) => removableTodosCount = todos.length }} id="embedded-app-1">
    App with removable todos ({removableTodosCount})
  </div>

  <div use:bootEmbeddedApp={{ canRemoveTodos: false, onTodosChanged: (todos) => nonRemovableTodosCount = todos.length }} id="embedded-app-2">
    App without removable todos ({nonRemovableTodosCount})
  </div>
{:else}
  Loading...
{/if}
{% endraw %}
```

![Final result](/assets/images/posts/2024-02-27-embeddable-ember-apps/ember-todo-test.mp4#video)

#### Considerations

- The Embeddable App is initialized under the assumption that the script was
  already loaded beforehand, making it difficult when loading asynchronously.
  Instead of providing and using the bundles directly, it could be a good idea
  to create a tiny wrapping script which's only job is to append script tags and
  expose a promise or hook to notify that they're loaded.
- Depending on a use case an iframe could be simpler, on the other hand this
  approach gives the most flexibility when it's necessary to allow manipulating
  the Embedded app at runtime.

#### Summary

> Making an Ember app isn't impossible or super hard but it is quirky, especially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making an Ember app embeddable isn't impossible or super hard but it is quirky, especially
```

?

considering the nuances about what build step takes what responsibility.
Currently the Embroider build feels like Webpack with Ember-cli on top, we've
both old and new system to be mindful of when building it. And frankly an idea
where I thought about extracting script paths from an already built `index.html`
isn't that bad :)

> However, there is a future where this will become much easier! The Embroider
> Initiative is working its way towards full Vite support which should relief

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there is a future where this will become much easier! The [Embroider
initiative](/embroider-initiative/) is working its way towards full Vite support which should relief
```

Ember from using the AMD format and allow for a much easier process where
bundler users would only import that single class which initializes the App.

Time will tell.

#### Resources

- [Repository](https://github.com/BobrImperator/my-blogposts)
- https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/application/
- https://guides.emberjs.com/release/configuring-ember/embedding-applications/
- https://web.dev/articles/iframe-lazy-loading
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#async
- https://webpack.js.org/api/module-methods/#require-amd-version

> - https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/emberjs

Reviewer: Let's make sure these are links

---
title: "Embedding an Ember App With Webpack"
authorHandle: BobrImperator
tags: [ember]
bio: "Software Developer"
description:
  "Bartlomiej Dudzik shows how to make an Ember App embeddable in non-Ember
  projects."
og:

>   image: /assets/images/posts/2021-12-08-validations-in-ember-apps/og-image.jpg

Author: @emmasofiah2o FYI

It uses the old image since I've removed the new one :1st_place_medal:

---
title: "Embedding an Ember App With Webpack"
authorHandle: BobrImperator
tags: [ember]
bio: "Software Developer"
description:
  "Bartlomiej Dudzik shows how to make an Ember App embeddable in non-Ember
  projects."
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2021-12-08-validations-in-ember-apps/og-image.jpg
tagline: |

>   <p>Taking a look at making an Ember app embeddable in non-Ember projects and allowwing for communication between both apps. Showing how to wrangle Webpack, Ember's build system and their caveats.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
  <p>Taking a look at making an Ember app embeddable in non-Ember projects and allowwing for communication between both apps. Showing how to wrangle Webpack, Ember's build systems and their caveats.</p>
```

imageAlt: Embeddable Ember Apps image
---

#### What we're working with

We'll make a simple Ember to-do app (what else could it be :)) that's then
loaded inside another non-Ember app. Use cases may vary, but probably the two most
common ones are a widget that requires visualizing data like maps or
micro-frontends that may need to share data between each other.

The goal of this post is to show how to wrangle Ember's build system and how a
potential integration between applications could look like.

The easiest approach for making the app embeddable would be to bundle its
scripts into single JS and CSS files. This is an additional build step we have

> to handle manually as by default, Webpack splits code into chunks, and while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to handle manually as, by default, Webpack splits code into chunks, and while
```

that could be disabled, the Ember-cli itself also always splits code into
`vendor.js` and `app.js` files. In the "old Ember" we'd use a tool such as
`ember-cli-concat` to do that, but with Embroider, we need to take care of
things through Webpack.

The end goal is to be able to include a script like so:

```html
<script src="https://ember-todo-test.onrender.com/bundle.js"></script>
```

and once loaded use it like so:

```javascript
const app = new window.MyEmbeddedApp(htmlElement, options);
await app.start();
```

##### Combining JS

> This in my opinion is the most complicated step and unfortunately for the wrong

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This, in my opinion, is the most complicated step and unfortunately for the wrong
```

reasons. When you're working with Ember, you yourself define and import files as
ES6 modules. During build, they are then compiled as AMD modules, meaning that
your application needs to bring a `requirejs` runtime with it.

What it means for us is that we need to make sure that the `requirejs` runtime
is the very first thing in the bundle file. Ember apps provide that inside the

> `vendor.js` script that preceeds the other scripts inside an `index.html`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`vendor.js` script that precedes the other scripts inside an `index.html`
```

> entrypoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
entry point.
```

There are a couple of Webpack plugins that do concatenation, but there's nuance
to how we must handle concatenation in this case, because we must ensure that
the `vendor.js` file is at the top and is processed first. For this reason, I

> recommend rolling out your own.

Reviewer 2: Replacing line 59 to 62 with: "A few Webpack plugins do concatenation, but there's nuance
to handling concatenation because we must ensure that
the `vendor.js` file is at the top and is processed first. For this reason, I
recommend rolling out your own."

    this.destinationFilePath = path.join(
      webpackOutputPath,
      this.options.destination
    );
    this.sourceFilesGlob = path.join(webpackOutputPath, this.options.source);

    compiler.hooks.done.tapPromise(
      "FileConcatenationPlugin",
      this.run.bind(this)
    );
  }

  async run(_compilation) {
    let inputFiles = await this.performGlobSearch(this.sourceFilesGlob);
    let filteredFiles = inputFiles.sort(a => {
      if (a.includes("vendor")) {
        return -1;
      }
      return 0;
    });

    console.log(filteredFiles);
    let allInputFileContents = "";
    for (let inputFilePath of filteredFiles) {
      let inputFileContents = await fs.readFile(inputFilePath);
      allInputFileContents += "\n";
      allInputFileContents += inputFileContents;
      allInputFileContents += `//# ${inputFilePath}`;
      allInputFileContents += "\n";
    }

    await fs.writeFile(this.destinationFilePath, allInputFileContents);
  }

  performGlobSearch(globStr) {
    return new Promise(resolve => {
      glob(globStr, null, function (er, files) {
        resolve(files);
      });
    });
  }
}
```

Now `ember-cli-build` needs to be configured:

> - set `storeConfigInMeta` to `false` so configuration defined in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- set `storeConfigInMeta` to `false` so configuration is defined in
```

  `config/environment.js` is embedded directly with the application code as
  opposed to the default behavior where your configuration would be a part of
  some separate tag inside `index.html`,
- use our defined plugin,
- (optionally) set the Embroider static flags.

```js
// ember-cli-build.js
const EmberApp = require("ember-cli/lib/broccoli/ember-app");
const { Webpack } = require("@embroider/webpack");

module.exports = function (defaults) {
  let app = new EmberApp(defaults, {
    storeConfigInMeta: false,
  });

  return require("@embroider/compat").compatBuild(app, Webpack, {
    staticAddonTestSupportTrees: true,
    staticAddonTrees: true,
    staticHelpers: true,
    staticModifiers: true,
    staticComponents: true,
    staticEmberSource: true,
    packagerOptions: {
      webpackConfig: {
        plugins: [
          new FileConcatenationPlugin({
            source: "**/*.js",
            destination: "bundle.js",
          }),
        ],
      },
    },
  });
};
```

##### Combining CSS

My recommendation is to opt out of the default styles CSS handling that Ember

> provides and do it on our own. Reason being that unfortunately `ember-cli`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provides and do it on our own. The reason being that `ember-cli`
```

doesn't seem to be using Webpack directly and it's not straightforward to know
how and when to concatenate them.

> Luckily a basic PostCSS setup isn't scary and is more common nowadays and even

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Luckily, a basic PostCSS setup isn't scary and is more common nowadays, and even
```

recommended.

> First lets define the styles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, let's define the styles:
```

    staticHelpers: true,
    staticModifiers: true,
    staticComponents: true,
    staticEmberSource: true,
    packagerOptions: {
      webpackConfig: {
        entry: {
          bundle: [path.resolve(__dirname, "app/app.css")],
        },
        module: {
          rules: [
            {
              test: /\.css$/i,
              use: [
                {
                  loader: "postcss-loader",
                },
              ],
            },
          ],
        },
        plugins: [
          new FileConcatenationPlugin({
            source: "**/*.js",
            destination: "bundle.js",
          }),
          new MiniCssExtractPlugin({
            filename: "[name].css",
          }),
        ],
      },
    },
  });
};
```

_If you're interested in a full tailwind setup, tailwindcss's official
documentation has an excellent
[tutorial](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/emberjs). Only a tiny amount of
extending what I've already shown is needed._

#### Booting up the application on our own terms

The application is only a few lines of code living inside `application.js`,
`application.hbs` and `app.js` - there's also a `todo-list.gjs` that I won't

> show in this post in order to save some space but you'll find a link to the rest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
show in this post in order to save some space, but you'll find a link to the rest
```

of the code at the bottom.

```js
import Controller from "@ember/controller";
import { getOwner } from "@ember/application";
import { tracked } from "@glimmer/tracking";

export default class ApplicationController extends Controller {
  @tracked todos = [];

  get config() {
    return getOwner(this).lookup("config:embedded");
  }

  receiveTodos = todos => {
    this.todos = todos;

    // Calling callback of a fake event handler.
    this.config.onTodosChanged?.(todos);
  };
}
```

```html
{% raw %}
<!-- templates/application.hbs -->
<div class="ember-todo-test">
  <TodoList
    @todos="{{this.todos}}"
    @onChange="{{this.receiveTodos}}"
    @canRemoveTodos="{{this.config.canRemoveTodos}}"
  />
</div>

{{outlet}} {% endraw %}
```

Some of the last shenanigans can be found in the `app.js` file. The only change
that the default `app.js` has is the `autoboot = false` option. It makes sure
that the app won't boot by default where usually it'd attempt to load and mount
itself to `body` or `rootElement` configuration found in
`config/environment.js`.

> Below it we add a `MyEmbeddedApp` class wrapper. Its job is to take over of App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below it, we add a `MyEmbeddedApp` class wrapper. Its job is to take over of App
```

initialization as well as serve as a communication layer between the App and
whoever uses it.

There's probably a few different ways to organize this. Here, for simplicity,

> the wrapper talks to the `application` controller directly but, if you have a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the wrapper talks to the `application` controller directly, but, if you have a
```

    this.#application = App.create({ rootElement: element, autoboot: false });
    // Register the configuration options in the Ember's DI.
    // Mimics the behavior of resolving the `config/environment.js` i.e. resolveRegistration('config:environment').
    this.#application.register("config:embedded", options, {
      instantiate: false,
    });
    this.options = options;
  }

  async start() {
    // Boot the Ember app.
    // Visit the application route.
    const appInstance = await this.#application.visit("/");
    this.#appInstance = appInstance;

    return this;
  }
}

// Register the `MyEmbeddedApp` to the global object.
(function registerToGlobal() {
  let theGlobal;
  if (typeof window !== "undefined") {
    theGlobal = window;
  } else if (typeof global !== "undefined") {
    theGlobal = global;
  } else if (typeof self !== "undefined") {
    theGlobal = self;
  }

  const globalName = "MyEmbeddedApp";
  if (!theGlobal[globalName]) {
    theGlobal[globalName] = MyEmbeddedApp;
  }
})();

// Usage:
// a = new window.MyEmbeddedApp(document.querySelector('body'), { canRemoveTodos: true })
// a.start();
```

#### Build, Deploy and Use

> Now the App can be built, run the build script as usual `npm run build` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now the App can be built: run the build script as usual `npm run build` and
```

deploy the `dist` to your static server or publish as an npm package.

Then add `script` and `link` tags pointing to the deployed bundles and
initialize the App.

In this [Embeddable Demo](https://svelte-todo-13xa.onrender.com), the app is
initialized when a `<div>` element is inserted. The app is initialized twice

> with different configurations, one configuration allows to remove items, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with different configurations; one configuration allows to remove items, the
```

> other doesn't, also both configurations set up a callback that will be called

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
other doesn't. Also both configurations set up a callback that will be called
```

      canRemoveTodos,
      onTodosChanged
    };

    const app = new window.MyEmbeddedApp(node, options)

    await app.start();

	return {
		destroy() {
			// the node has been removed from the DOM
		}
	};
  }
</script>

{#if isEmbeddedAppReady}
  <div use:bootEmbeddedApp={{ canRemoveTodos: true, onTodosChanged: (todos) => removableTodosCount = todos.length }} id="embedded-app-1">
    App with removable todos ({removableTodosCount})
  </div>

  <div use:bootEmbeddedApp={{ canRemoveTodos: false, onTodosChanged: (todos) => nonRemovableTodosCount = todos.length }} id="embedded-app-2">
    App without removable todos ({nonRemovableTodosCount})
  </div>
{:else}
  Loading...
{/if}
{% endraw %}
```

![Final result](/assets/images/posts/2024-02-27-embeddable-ember-apps/ember-todo-test.mp4#video)

#### Considerations

- The embeddable app is initialized under the assumption that the script was
  already loaded beforehand, making it difficult when loading asynchronously.
  Instead of providing and using the bundles directly, it could be a good idea
  to create a tiny wrapping script whose only job is to append script tags and
  expose a promise or hook to notify that they're loaded.

> - Depending on a use case, an iframe could be simpler. On the other hand, this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Depending on the use case, an iframe could be simpler. On the other hand, this
```

---
title: "Embedding an Ember App with webpack"
authorHandle: BobrImperator
tags: [ember]
bio: "Software Developer"
description:
  "Bartlomiej Dudzik shows how to make an Ember App embeddable in non-Ember
  projects."
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2021-12-08-validations-in-ember-apps/og-image.jpg
tagline: |
  <p>Taking a look at making an Ember App embeddable in non-Ember projects and allow for communication between one another. Showing how to wrangle Webpack, Ember's build system and their caveats.</p>
imageAlt: Embeddable Ember Apps image
---

#### What we're working with

We'll make a simple Ember Todo App (what else could it be :)) that's then loaded

> in another non-Ember app. Use cases may wary, probably 2 most common ones are a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in another non-Ember app. Use cases may vary, but probably the two most common ones are a
```

> widget that requires visualising data like maps or microfrontends that may need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
widget that requires visualizing data like maps and micro-frontends that may need
```

to share data between each other.

> The goal of this post mainly to show how to wrangle the Ember's build system and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal of this post is to show how to wrangle Ember's build system and
```

> show how a potential integration between applications could look like.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
how a potential integration between applications could look like.
```

> The easiest approach for making the app embeddable would be to bundle it's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The easiest approach for making the app embeddable would be to bundle its
```

> scripts into a single JS and CSS files. This is an additional build step we have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scripts into single JS and CSS files. This is an additional build step we have
```

> to handle ourselves as by default Webpack splits code into chunks and while it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to handle ourselves as by default, Webpack splits code into chunks, and while that
```

could be disabled, the Ember-cli itself also always splits code into `vendor.js`
and `app.js` files. In the "old Ember" we'd use a tool such as

> `ember-cli-concat` to do that, with Embroider we need to take care of things

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ember-cli-concat` to do that, with Embroider, we need to take care of things
```

> through webpack however.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
through Webpack.
```

The end goal is to be able to include a script like so:

```html
<script src="https://ember-todo-test.onrender.com/bundle.js"></script>
```

and once loaded use it like so:

```javascript
const app = new window.MyEmbeddedApp(htmlElement, options);
await app.start();
```

##### Combining JS

This in my opinion is the most complicated step and unfortunately for the wrong
reasons. When you're working with Ember, you yourself define and import files as

> ES6 modules. During build they are then compiled as AMD modules, meaning thaty

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ES6 modules. During build, they are then compiled as AMD modules, meaning that your
```

> our application needs to bring a `requirejs` runtime with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
application needs to bring a `requirejs` runtime with it.
```

What it means for us is that we need to make sure that the `requirejs` runtime
is the very first thing in the bundle file. Ember apps provide that inside the
`vendor.js` script that preceeds the other scripts inside an `index.html`
entrypoint.

> There are a couple webpack plugins that do concatenation but there's a little

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a couple of Webpack plugins that do concatenation, and they differ slightly due, for example,
```

> specific nuance such as the order of concatenation or outdated webpack version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the order of concatenation or outdated Webpack version.
```

> hence I recommend rolling out your own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason, I recommend rolling out your own.
```

      "FileConcatenationPlugin",
      this.run.bind(this)
    );
  }

  async run(_compilation) {
    let inputFiles = await this.performGlobSearch(this.sourceFilesGlob);
    let filteredFiles = inputFiles.sort(a => {
      if (a.includes("vendor")) {
        return -1;
      }
      return 0;
    });

    console.log(filteredFiles);
    let allInputFileContents = "";
    for (let inputFilePath of filteredFiles) {
      let inputFileContents = await fs.readFile(inputFilePath);
      allInputFileContents += "\n";
      allInputFileContents += inputFileContents;
      allInputFileContents += `//# ${inputFilePath}`;
      allInputFileContents += "\n";
    }

    await fs.writeFile(this.destinationFilePath, allInputFileContents);
  }

  performGlobSearch(globStr) {
    return new Promise(resolve => {
      glob(globStr, null, function (er, files) {
        resolve(files);
      });
    });
  }
}
```

Now `ember-cli-build` needs to be configured:

- set `storeConfigInMeta` to false so configuration defined in
  `config/environment.js` is embedded directly with the application code as
  opposed to the default behavior where your configuration would be a part of

>   some separate tag inside `index.html`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  some separate tag inside `index.html`
```

- use our defined plugin

> - (optionally) set the Embroider static flags

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- (optionally) set the Embroider static flags.
```

```js
// ember-cli-build.js
const EmberApp = require("ember-cli/lib/broccoli/ember-app");
const { Webpack } = require("@embroider/webpack");

module.exports = function (defaults) {
  let app = new EmberApp(defaults, {
    storeConfigInMeta: false,
  });

  return require("@embroider/compat").compatBuild(app, Webpack, {
    staticAddonTestSupportTrees: true,
    staticAddonTrees: true,
    staticHelpers: true,
    staticModifiers: true,
    staticComponents: true,
    staticEmberSource: true,
    packagerOptions: {
      webpackConfig: {
        plugins: [
          new FileConcatenationPlugin({
            source: "**/*.js",
            destination: "bundle.js",
          }),
        ],
      },
    },
  });
};
```

##### Combining css

> Applications rarely come unstyled and while this application will have almost

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applications rarely come unstyled
```

> none, this is also a rather non obvious step that is otherwise complicated if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and setting up styling is a non-obvious step that gets complicated if
```

> not setup correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
not done correctly.
```

> My humble recommendation is to opt out of the default styles CSS handling that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
My recommendation is to opt out of the default styles CSS handling that
```

Ember provides and do it on our own. Reason being that unfortunately `ember-cli`
doesn't seem to be using Webpack directly and it's not straightforward to know
how and when to concatenate them.

Luckily a basic postcss setup isn't scary and is more common nowadays and even
recommended.

First lets define the styles:

- install packages `npm install postcss-loader mini-css-extract-plugin -D`

> - Create an `app.css` file in the `app` directory - on the same level as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- create an `app.css` file in the `app` directory - on the same level as
```

  `app.js`

> - Scope the styles to `.ember-todo-test` to avoid style collisions with projects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- scope the styles to `.ember-todo-test` to avoid style collisions with projects
```

module.exports = function (defaults) {
  let app = new EmberApp(defaults, {
    storeConfigInMeta: false,
  });

  return require("@embroider/compat").compatBuild(app, Webpack, {
    staticAddonTestSupportTrees: true,
    staticAddonTrees: true,
    staticHelpers: true,
    staticModifiers: true,
    staticComponents: true,
    staticEmberSource: true,
    packagerOptions: {
      webpackConfig: {
        entry: {
          bundle: [path.resolve(__dirname, "app/app.css")],
        },
        module: {
          rules: [
            {
              test: /\.css$/i,
              use: [
                {
                  loader: "postcss-loader",
                },
              ],
            },
          ],
        },
        plugins: [
          new FileConcatenationPlugin({
            source: "**/*.js",
            destination: "bundle.js",
          }),
          new MiniCssExtractPlugin({
            filename: "[name].css",
          }),
        ],
      },
    },
  });
};
```

_If you're interested in a full tailwind setup, tailwindcss's official
documentation has an excellent
[tutorial](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/emberjs). Only a tiny amount of

> extending what I've shown is needed._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
extending what I've shown.
```

show in this post in order to save some space but you'll find a link to the rest
of the code at the bottom.

```js
import Controller from "@ember/controller";
import { getOwner } from "@ember/application";
import { tracked } from "@glimmer/tracking";

export default class ApplicationController extends Controller {
  @tracked todos = [];

  get config() {
    return getOwner(this).lookup("config:embedded");
  }

  receiveTodos = todos => {
    this.todos = todos;

    // Calling callback of a fake event handler.
    this.config.onTodosChanged?.(todos);
  };
}
```

```html
{% raw %}
<!-- templates/application.hbs -->
<div class="ember-todo-test">
  <TodoList
    @todos="{{this.todos}}"
    @onChange="{{this.receiveTodos}}"
    @canRemoveTodos="{{this.config.canRemoveTodos}}"
  />
</div>

{{outlet}} {% endraw %}
```

Some of the last shenanigans can be found in the `app.js` file. The only change
that the default `app.js` has is the `autoboot = false` option. It makes sure
that the app won't boot by default where usually it'd attempt to load and mount
itself to `body` or `rootElement` configuration found in
`config/environment.js`.

> Below it we add a `MyEmbeddedApp` class wrapper. It's job is to take over of App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below it we add a `MyEmbeddedApp` class wrapper. Its job is to take over of App
```

initialization as well as serve as a communication layer between the App and
whoever uses it.

There's probably a few way to organize this, here for simplicity the wrapper
speaks to the `application` controller directly but if you've a more complicated

> use case you could use services, proper events and such to do the job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use case you could use services, proper events, and such to do the job.
```

    // Register the configuration options in the Ember's DI.
    // Mimics the behavior of resolving the `config/environment.js` i.e. resolveRegistration('config:environment').
    this.#application.register("config:embedded", options, {
      instantiate: false,
    });
    this.options = options;
  }

  async start() {
    // Boot the Ember app.
    // Visit the application route.
    const appInstance = await this.#application.visit("/");
    this.#appInstance = appInstance;

    return this;
  }
}

// Register the `MyEmbeddedApp` to the global object.
(function registerToGlobal() {
  let theGlobal;
  if (typeof window !== "undefined") {
    theGlobal = window;
  } else if (typeof global !== "undefined") {
    theGlobal = global;
  } else if (typeof self !== "undefined") {
    theGlobal = self;
  }

  const globalName = "MyEmbeddedApp";
  if (!theGlobal[globalName]) {
    theGlobal[globalName] = MyEmbeddedApp;
  }
})();

// Usage:
// a = new window.MyEmbeddedApp(document.querySelector('body'), { canRemoveTodos: true })
// a.start();
```

#### Build, Deploy and Use

Now the App can be built. Simply run the build script as usual `npm run build`

> and deploy the `dist` to your static server or publish as an NPM package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and deploy the `dist` to your static server or publish as an npm package.
```

Then add `script` and `link` tags pointing to the deployed bundles and
initialize the App.

In this [Embeddable Demo](https://svelte-todo-13xa.onrender.com), the App is
initialized when a div is inserted. The App is initialized twice with different
configurations, one allows to remove items, the other doesn't. Also both pass a

> callback that will be called when todos have changed and then it'll display

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
callback that will be called when todos have changed and then will display
```

    document.head.appendChild(link);
  });

  async function bootEmbeddedApp(node, { canRemoveTodos, onTodosChanged }) {
    let options = {
      canRemoveTodos,
      onTodosChanged
    };

    const app = new window.MyEmbeddedApp(node, options)

    await app.start();

	return {
		destroy() {
			// the node has been removed from the DOM
		}
	};
  }
</script>

{#if isEmbeddedAppReady}
  <div use:bootEmbeddedApp={{ canRemoveTodos: true, onTodosChanged: (todos) => removableTodosCount = todos.length }} id="embedded-app-1">
    App with removable todos ({removableTodosCount})
  </div>

  <div use:bootEmbeddedApp={{ canRemoveTodos: false, onTodosChanged: (todos) => nonRemovableTodosCount = todos.length }} id="embedded-app-2">
    App without removable todos ({nonRemovableTodosCount})
  </div>
{:else}
  Loading...
{/if}
{% endraw %}
```

![Final result](/assets/images/posts/2024-02-27-embeddable-ember-apps/ember-todo-test.mp4#video)

#### Considerations

- The Embeddable App is initialized under the assumption that the script was
  already loaded beforehand, making it difficult when loading asynchronously.
  Instead of providing and using the bundles directly, it could be a good idea

>   to create a tiny wrapping script which's only job is to append script tags and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  to create a tiny wrapping script whose only job is to append script tags and
```

  expose a promise or hook to notify that they're loaded.
- Depending on a use case an iframe could be simpler, on the other hand this
  approach gives the most flexibility when it's necessary to allow manipulating
  the Embedded app at runtime.

#### Summary

Making an Ember app embeddable isn't impossible or super hard but it is quirky,
especially considering the nuances about what build step takes what
responsibility. Currently the Embroider build feels like Webpack with Ember-cli

> on top, we've both old and new system to be mindful of when building it. And

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on top, we have both old and new systems to be mindful of when building it. And
```
